# How Do Sleep Positions Affect Dreams In Teenagers?
The purpose of the study was to determine the correlation between dream quality and sleeping positions in teenagers. In this study, we created a survey using Google Forms and reached out to teenagers on social media platforms, such as Instagram and Reddit. Additionally, we ran a paid advertisement to gain a larger sample size. As a result, 1225 teenagers (ages 13-19) took the survey, making our study the largest one ever run in the field. The study participants were asked about the positions they sleep in, their rating of the dreams' various emotional parameters (happiness, scariness, vividity, bizarreness, romance), and several sleep habits, such as screen time and sleep length. To help analyze our data in the most accurate and efficient way possible, we created a data analysis computer program using Java, using elements of data science and object-oriented programming. Our computer program was the main tool for data analysis, because with a sample size of more than 1000 people, analyzing our results by hand would be almost impossible. Survey takers reported having the happiest dreams and less vivid dreams when sleeping on the right side. The most vivid and scariest dreams happened when an individual entered sleep on the left side. For sad, bizarre and romantic dreams to occur, the chances were the highest when sleeping on the stomach. The least scary and the least bizarre dreams occurred when sleeping on the back. We think it happened because various body parts experience pressure during sleep, which triggers various emotions and affects the dream contents.

This repository is intended to make the code we used for data analysis available for everyone to view. The data we have collected is available as a separate .csv file.
